URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/32455/10910921/jelena-ostapenko-wins-french-open-final-against-simona-halep
TITLE:b'Jelena Ostapenko wins French Open final against Simona Halep | Tennis News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:03/08/17 11:13am
DOC ID:139
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 03/08/17 11:13amUnseeded Jelena Ostapenko has clinched a remarkable French Open title after seeing off Simona Halep in the final with a brilliant display of attacking tennis.The world No 47 won 4-6 6-4 6-3 to become the first player to win their maiden Tour title at a Grand Slam since Gustavo Kuerten on June 8, 1997 - the day Ostapenko was born.Her victory completed a fairy-tale fortnight that included her 20th birthday and a congratulatory call from Raimonds Vejonis, president of her native Latvia.The incredibly powerful hitting that had been a staple of Ostapenko\'s run to the final was evident from the very first game. Against serve, she blasted four consecutive points to register a quick break and send out a warning to her more experienced rival.Ostapenko\'s forehand was clocked at 75mph, faster than Andy Murray managed at any point during this French Open, but 23 unforced errors in the first set told their own story. Four of the first six games went against the serve, creating a 3-3 score-line, during a period where Ostapenko might have regretted not building a lead.No 3 seed Halep defended her serve staunchly to take a 5-4 lead, a moment which felt important as Ostapenko\'s blistering assault threatened to waver. The youngster then conceded her own serve in the very next game to give Halep the first set.Brilliant winners were exchanged in the first moments of the second set but the momentum had clearly shifted to Halep\'s favour, as she took a quick 3-0 lead.Yet Ostapenko had resolve. She had previously won her quarter-final after trailing Caroline Wozniacki and Halep was the latest victim of her determination.                    Unseeded Jelena Ostapenko became one of the most unlikely Grand Slam champions in tennis history. But who is she?                Latvia\'s Ostapenko strung together four games, finding her targets with excellent winners time and time again, and she claimed the second set with a forehand that flew past Halep.The concluding set was tit-for-tat but it was always Ostapenko striking the eye-catching shots, such as the back-hand half-volley that drew her level at 3-3.Ostapenko\'s 50th winner of the match was another half-volley, helping her to a 5-3 lead, which she then converted against the serve by thumping Halep\'s delivery straight back past her."I was just trying to stay aggressive," Ostapenko said. "A couple of games, everything turned my way. I was 3-0 down [in the second set] but I was fighting for every point."I still cannot believe it. It was my dream always. When I was a child I was watching. It\'s amazing to play here. I just enjoy it so much."Halep, who also lost the 2014 final to Maria Sharapova, said: "I am sick in the stomach with emotions but hopefully I can win this one in the future."I want to congratulate Jelena. All the credit for what you have done. Enjoy it, be happy and keep it going because you\'re like a kid."The men\'s final will be contested between Rafael Nadal and Stan Wawrinka on Sunday.For those on the move, we will have the French Open from Roland Garros covered via our website skysports.com/tennis, our app for mobile devices and iPad, or follow our Twitter account @SkySportsTennis to join in the conversation. Who will win the French Open men\'s final? Have your say...Sky customers can now upgrade to Sky Sports for an unmissable summer of sport. Upgrade now!\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'