URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11688/10994244/championship-weekend-preview-aston-villa-boss-steve-bruce-dismisses-early-pressure
TITLE:b'Championship weekend preview: Aston Villa boss Steve Bruce dismisses early pressure | Football News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'sky, sports, sport, football, soccer, news, championship, england, division 1, one, league, birmingham, city, wolverhampton wanderers, reading, sheffield united, plymouth argyle, coventry, cardiff, swansea, burnley, wednesday, queens park rangers, preston north end, bristol, charlton athletic, derby county, blackpool, ipswich town, crystal palace, watford, southampton, norwich, barnsley, doncaster rovers, nottingham forest'
DATE:18/08/17 4:27pm
DOC ID:19
CONTENT:b'Championship\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 18/08/17 4:27pmAston Villa manager Steve Bruce has dismissed speculation about his job security as "ridiculous" following a winless start to the campaign.Second-bottom Villa host Norwich on Saturday having taken a solitary point from their three opening Sky Bet Championship matches. Despite feeling the criticism is premature, Bruce admits he needs a victory against the Canaries at Villa Park.                    See the latest Championship odds and more here ahead of the weekend\'s action                "(Pressure) comes with the territory," he said. "It is quite ridiculous after a week. I shouldn\'t have to judge myself after such a short time. I have to ride the storm."We all want a good start and managers dread a bad start. The pressure is big at this club - I need a win on Saturday to shut them up."The weekend kicks off on Friday night as Burton host Birmingham - live on Sky Sports Football from 7pm - and there is a mouth-watering match in prospect in Saturday\'s late kick-off with Sunderland set to host Leeds, on the same channel from 5.15pm.August 19, 2017, 5:15pmLive on                         Black Cats boss Simon Grayson has called for home supporters to make the Stadium of Light a hostile place to visit ahead of the clash with one of his former clubs."It\'s an unbelievable atmosphere when it gets going and the Derby game highlighted that, because I thought the supporters were excellent. And hopefully come Saturday - and throughout the season - they come in their numbers and make it a difficult place for the opposition to come," Grayson told Sunderland\'s official website."If you have a full stadium it can be an intimidating atmosphere and it can really inspire the players. These are the games the players want to be involved in and look forward to because it\'ll be a great atmosphere and Leeds have a big following."                    Presenter David Prutton is joined by QPR boss Ian Holloway and Andy Hinchcliffe on the first ever EFL Matters podcast                At the top of the table, early leaders Cardiff make the trip to Molineux to face a Wolves side who have also enjoyed a 100 per cent start to the campaign. Bluebirds boss Neil Warnock believes their positive early-season form has created a buzz around the club."I don\'t see many players not enjoying themselves," he said. "We know we\'ll come up against teams where we won\'t get results. But we\'ve got to enjoy it when doing well and not get down when it changes."The day\'s early game promises to be a fiery encounter, with Barnsley making the short journey down the M1 to do battle with South Yorkshire rivals Sheffield United at Bramall Lane.In the pick of Saturday\'s other games, last season\'s beaten play-off semi-finalists Fulham and Sheffield Wednesday meet at Craven Cottage, Derby go to Bolton and Nottingham Forest entertain Middlesbrough.Ipswich will attempt to maintain their 100 per cent start at home to Brentford, Bristol City host Millwall, Reading travel to Preston, and QPR welcome Hull to Loftus Road.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'