URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/32455/10911231/rafael-nadal-will-take-on-stan-wawrinka-in-the-mens-french-open-final-at-roland-garros
TITLE:b"Rafael Nadal will take on Stan Wawrinka in the men's French Open final at Roland Garros | Tennis News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:10/06/17 8:07pm
DOC ID:197
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 10/06/17 8:07pmRafael Nadal is in vintage form and ready to claim an unprecedented 10th Roland Garros title when he takes on Stan Wawrinka in Sunday\'s final.The 31-year-old Spaniard, ready to reclaim his Roland crown after a two-year hiatus, is on the verge of something special.He faces Wawrinka in the showpiece match in what will be only his second clash with the Swiss in Paris having won convincingly four years ago.                    Rafael Nadal beats Dominic Thiem in three sets to reach French Open semi-final                Nadal, who cut short his challenge last year following a wrist injury, went through a tough six-week training block ahead of the new season, and has been in top form throughout 2017, losing a classic Australian Open final to Roger Federer and then dominating on clay."It\'s no secret," said Nadal. "It\'s only about being healthy and having the chance to work as much as I want on the things that we wanted to work on.                    Will it be a 10th French Open for Rafael Nadal or will Stan Wawrinka claim the title again?                "If that happens, then the chances to be very competitive and the chances to be playing well are much higher. The problem is during my career I didn\'t have a lot of periods of this one month and a half without problems."The clay-court king looks hungrier than ever to extend his domination on the red dirt where he has no rival and should Nadal win, he would extend a record he already holds, becoming the first man in history to win 10 major singles titles at the same tournament.Only Margaret Court, with 11 titles at the Australian Open, has ever won more.                    How has Rafael Nadal returned to his best ahead of the French Open?                The signs certainly point to Nadal reaching double figures. He is yet to drop a set and has lost only 29 games en route to the final, the fewest since Bjorn Borg in 1978.But he is wary of Wawrinka, who had also not dropped a set prior to an epic five-set semi-final against Andy Murray, a match in which he crunched 87 winners.Nadal said: "I always say the same but it\'s true. Nine or 10, it\'s only 10 per cent more. It\'s true 10 is a beautiful number, nine is my favourite, but if I win it will become 10.""I don\'t care about the games I lost or not, or sets or these kind of things. The only thing I care is I have been playing very well during the whole event, and I was able to win all the matches.                    Can \'King of Clay\' Rafael Nadal finally add to his 14 Grand Slam titles?                "I am very pleased with everything that happened since the first day that I arrived here."Now remains one match against a very tough opponent, and he played a very tough match, so he will be full of confidence for Sunday. And he\'s a very dangerous player because he can hit the ball very hard."I need to play aggressive, I need to play long, I need to try to not let him play from easy positions. If not, I\'m going to be in big trouble."He\'s on a good run. He\'s in the final. So it\'s the toughest opponent possible here."Wawrinka\'s evolution into a serial Grand Slam contender has been one of the great stories of this era.A talented under-achiever, Wawrinka went from never having reached a slam semi-final prior to the US Open in 2013 to having made nine of the last 16.Three times he has reached finals previously and he has won every one - defeating an admittedly-injured Nadal at the Australian Open in 2014 and Novak Djokovic here in 2015 and in New York last year."It gives me the confidence I need," said Wawrinka. "It shows me that I can play my best tennis when I play a match like that. I have done it three times. I know what it takes to win a grand slam tournament.                    Stan Wawrinka beats Andy Murray in five-set French Open semi-final                "Mentally, when I arrive at a big tournament or in a big match, it\'s like switching off everything in my body except my brain, which I put in winning mode."Of course, I can lose, but I think I\'m extremely confident about what I do, about how I feel, about all the hard work I have accomplished over the past days, weeks, months, years."I know that mentally, when I\'m there, it\'s difficult to beat me."For those on the move, we will have the French Open from Roland Garros covered via our website skysports.com/tennis, our app for mobile devices and iPad, or follow our Twitter account @SkySportsTennis to join in the conversation. Who will win the men\'s French Open title? Have your say...                    Rafael Nadal or Stan Wawrinka?                Sky customers can now upgrade to Sky Sports for an unmissable summer of sport. Upgrade now!\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'