URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/12110/10978328/alexander-zverev-meet-tennis-next-biggest-star
TITLE:b"Alexander Zverev: Meet tennis' next biggest star | Tennis News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'News,Tennis,Sky,Sports,Sky Sports,sport,news'
DATE:14/08/17 1:12pm
DOC ID:21
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 14/08/17 1:12pmWe profile the rising star of the ATP World Tour, Alexander Zverev, who is now adding titles to brilliant natural talent.Zverev secured a tour-leading fifth ATP World Tour title of the season in Montreal last week, joining Roger Federer at the summit, and his performances suggest he is edging closer to a maiden major title.He has become the first player outside the big four to win multiple Masters 1000 titles in a season since David Nalbandian in 2007, and is only the second active male player other than Jo-Wilfired Tsonga to have won more than one Masters 1000 events.                    Roger Federer was beaten in straight sets by Alexander Zverev in the Montreal Masters final.                "Winning two Masters 1000 titles in the same year is something amazing," said Zverev. "I played well winning Washington and here."It\'s something amazing, back-to-back weeks. I feel great. I feel like I\'m playing some of the best tennis of my life."The 20-year-old German is in no doubt about what has helped him produce these types of dominant, energetic and composed displays on the big stage.Zverev, who moves to a career high of world No 7, said: "I improved a lot in the last few months and in this off-season so I can be able to win these kinds of tournaments."I showed in Rome and I\'m showing it here again. I just hope I can continue playing well like this or even make it better in the summer. We\'ll see what the next few big tournaments hold for me."His words are testament to the ambition he has within the game and the drive he holds to get there.Zverev\'s victory at the Citi Open earlier this month, his first 500-level title, was his fifth title in 11 months, underlining the consistent upward trajectory which has enabled him to have such a breakthrough campaign.The title came in his first tournament under the tutelage of former French Open winner Juan Carlos Ferrero, proving Zverev\'s determination to learn, adapt and mould his game plan to a specific situation. Welcome to the team JCF #teamzverev #newvoiceA post shared by Alexander Zverev (@alexzverev123) on Jul 21, 2017 at 11:33am PDT"He\'s such an easy guy to be around that it was such an easy decision for me to take him into the team," Zverev said about Ferrero, who will work with Alexander Zverev Sr who has coached Zverev Jr throughout his career."He doesn\'t want to take my father\'s place; my father doesn\'t want to take his place. From that kind of view, he was the perfect fit."Prior to Washington, Zverev won the biggest tournament of his career to date by securing an emphatic victory over Novak Djokovic in Rome and won titles in Montpellier and Munich in differing conditions to showcase his all-game ability.There is a degree of effortlessness to Zverev\'s game - similar to Federer - but one of his major qualities is his unquestionable work ethic.This will be vital if he wants to become stronger and more durable in the longer encounters, something that will be paramount if wants to challenge at the majors over five-sets.His service motion is incredibly effective and is a weapon on both first and second serve. He won an incredible 82% of his service points during his final in Washington against Kevin Anderson and maintained that relentless serving display in his Montreal victory against Federer."I obviously want to improve as fast and as much as I can until I\'m at the top of the game," Zverev said. "That\'s what I\'m trying to do. But it\'s not (just) in my hands."Nevertheless there remains a question mark over his ability to contend against the very best, which came to fruition when the German was put to the sword by Federer in Halle where the 36-year-old strolled to a 6-1 6-3 victory.There\'s also the question of his temperament which can fluctuate. On the back of beating Djokovic at the Rome Masters, Zverev came into the French Open full of confidence but was sent packing at the first hurdle by veteran Fernando Verdasco.In that encounter he failed to deliver to his true potential and appeared to lose his focus on the job at hand as his shrewd Spanish opponent took control with his aggressive baseline hitting.                    Alexander Zverev claimed his fourth title of the year, beating Kevin Anderson in straight sets to win the Citi Open in Washington.                Zverev will be determined to maintain his excellent start to the American hard court series of tournaments in Cincinnati ahead of the final major of the season but knows maintaining his level of performances will be a tough challenge."Cincinnati is a very tough draw," said Zverev. "I don\'t know if I will be able to go far there because I am a little bit tired. But game-wise and confidence-wise, I\'m super happy the way everything is standing."The US Open later this month might come too soon for a first major triumph, with Federer and Nadal strong favourites, but he will want to improve on his best run at a major which came last month at Wimbledon when he reached the fourth round.His chances look promising as well following the withdrawals of notable figures through injury in Djokovic and defending champion Stan Wawrinka while world No 1 Andy Murray was forced to pull out of both Montreal and Cincinnati in order to recover from a hip injury."I feel like I\'m playing the right tennis, well enough tennis to be there," Zverev added."I don\'t feel like things are going unnatural. I think everything is going pretty natural. Obviously winning the two Masters 1000 events, everybody would be proud of that, and nobody could expect it. But I\'m happy that it happened."Looking beyond the US Open his title in Montreal confirmed his spot at the inaugural season-ending Next Gen ATP finals and aided his hopes of reaching a maiden World Tour finals in London.                    As the hard-court swing heads to Montreal and Cincinnati, some players are aiming to tighten their grip on a spot at the inaugural season-ending NEXT ATP Gen finals.                The 6\'6" Zverev has moved to third in the ATP Race To London and has extended his commanding lead at the top of the leaderboard for the Race to Milan, where the inaugural Next Gen event will be held.Follow the action on Sky Sports Action all week while we will have the Masters 1000 series in Cincinnati covered via our website skysports.com/tennisOn the move? Head to our app for mobile devices and iPad, or follow our Twitter account @SkySportsTennis to join in the conversation. Who will win the US Open titles this year? Have your say...\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'