URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11731/10970881/swansea-201718-season-preview-will-the-swans-avoid-a-relegation-scrap
TITLE:b'Swansea 2017/18 season preview: Will the Swans avoid a relegation scrap? | Football News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b"Sky Sports, Swansea City, Football, Soccer, news, Dorus de Vries, Demitrios Konstantopoulos, Ashley Williams, Marcos Painter, Alan Tate, Garry Monk, Federico Bessone, Angel Rangel, Albert Serran, James Burgin, Kristian O'Leary, Ferrie Bodde, Ferrie Bodde, Leon Britton, Darren Pratley, Andrea Orlandi, Mark Gower, Jordi Gomez, Shaun MacDonald, Bessone Fede, Matthew Collins, Jason Scotland, Gorka Pintado, Guillem Bauza, Stefan Morrison, Kerry Morgan"
DATE:02/08/17 7:35pm
DOC ID:211
CONTENT:b"Swansea City\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 02/08/17 7:35pmWill Swansea avoid another relegation scrap? Read our 2017/18 season preview with expert views from Soccer Saturday pundit Matt Le Tissier.Finishing position: 15th (-3)Total points: 41 (-6)FA Cup: Third roundEFL Cup: Third roundTop league scorer: Fernando Llorente (15)                    Pick your team, create a league and invite your mates for free here                 Key stat: Swansea spent almost half the season - 128 days - in the relegation zone but recovered well once Paul Clement was appointed as head coach to stay up. He won nine of his 18 league games in charge, three times as many as Francesco Guidolin, Bob Bradley and Alan Curtis combined in the period before his arrival at the Liberty Stadium.Major ins: Roque Mesa (Las Palmas, \xc2\xa311m), Tammy Abraham (Chelsea, loan).Major outs: Jack Cork (Burnley, undisclosed), Borja Baston (Malaga, loan), Jordi Amat (Real Betis, loan), Bafatembi Gomis (Galatasary, undisclosed).Will Clement be a success at Swansea?LE TISS: I thought he did well last season. They had a sticky spell where it looked like he'd lost it and they came back so, given where they were when he took over, he's shown he's good enough to manage in the Premier League.Matt Le TissierWhich of their players are you most excited about watching? LE TISS: There is a player who really caught the eye with his U23 performances, Oliver McBurnie. He scored a lot of goals and had a few substitute appearances so I think he could be one to watch out for.What are the challenges facing the manager this season? LE TISS: I think a lot of it depends on what happens with Gylfi Sigurdsson. He's an incredibly difficult player to replace and I think if he goes and they don't replace him with somebody equally as effective then they could be in trouble.What are their strengths?LE TISS: They're comfortable on the ball, good in possession and their wide players can be dangerous, so going forward they're a good team if they can keep it in tact.What are their weaknesses?                     Guaranteed \xc3\x82\xc2\xa31m prize until won                LE TISS: I've always thought they were weak in the full-back department. Angel Rangel and Kyle Naughton are decent but struggle a bit against better sides.Where will they finish this season and why? LE TISS: It's a tricky one because it depends on Sigurdsson. With him I would go for around 13th and 17th, maybe 18th without.Back Swansea at 1/7 with Sky Bet to finish in the bottom half of the Premier League table, with the bookmaker also pricing the Swans at 9/4 for relegation.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"