URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/31870/9909912/novak-djokovic-v-roger-federer-classic-matches-ahead-of-australian-open-meeting
TITLE:b'Novak Djokovic v Roger Federer classic matches ahead of Australian Open meeting | Tennis News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:03/01/17 6:12pm
DOC ID:219
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 03/01/17 6:12pmWe look back at the best matches between Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer ahead of their Australian Open semi-final clash on Thursday.Defending champion Djokovic issued a chilling warning to his Melbourne challengers by storming to a 6-3 6-2 6-4 victory over seventh seed Kei Nishikori to set up a blockbuster semi-final against Federer.The Swiss marvel carved up Czech rival Tomas Berdych in straight sets, 7-6 (7-4) 6-2 6-4 to reach his 12th Australian Open semi-final in 13 years.Djokovic is seeking his 11th major title while Federer, 34, is looking to extend his record tally to 18 - and both will want to take charge of their head-to-head, which is locked at 22-22.Here are some of the most memorable encounters between the two greats...US Open, 2007, final (outdoor hard)\xc2\xa0- Federer won 7-6 (7-4) 7-6 (7-2) 6-4                          Federer swept to his fourth successive US Open crown in 2007             Djokovic had defeated Federer for the first time in his career in the Montreal Masters final just weeks before the US Open and in New York he was making his first appearance in a final at the majors. But Federer swept to his fourth successive US Open crown, the first man to do so since Bill Tilden 80 years earlier. Djokovic had his chances, leading 6-5 in both the first two sets, seeing Federer save seven break points.US Open, 2009, SF (outdoor hard) - Federer 7-6 7-5 7-5                          Federer hit his famous hot-dog shot against Djokovic at the 2009 US Open             This isn\'t the greatest match Federer and Djokovic have ever produced but it is one of the most memorable. The reason being it featured one of the all-time great shots by the Swiss maestro. Having played some superb tennis to fend off a fine effort from his opponent, Federer hit a simply stunning through-the-legs winner - a hot dog, tweener, call it what you like - to bring up match points. Djokovic grinned wryly. What else could he do against such brilliance? Federer wrapped up victory moments later and then described his shot as "the greatest I ever hit in my life". It was hard to argue - or indeed think of a shot by anyone else which had been better.                                We look back to Djokovic and Federer in the 2009 US Open semi-final  US Open, 2010, SF (outdoor hard) - Djokovic 5-7 6-1 5-7 6-2 7-5                          Djokovic beat Federer in a see-saw encounter to reach the 2010 US Open final             The Serb won a see-saw encounter in New York to deny Federer what would have been a seventh successive final appearance at Flushing Meadows. Djokovic did so by saving two match points in the final set, coming from 15-40 down to level with some nerveless play. Federer had a chance to break back and force a deciding tie-break but failed to do so and Djokovic was left celebrating a win he had waited a long time for - Federer had beaten him in the tournament in each of the three previous years. "To be honest I was just closing my eyes and hitting forehands as fast as I can on the match points," said Djokovic afterwards. "If it goes in, it goes in. If it goes out, you know, another loss to Federer in the US Open. I managed to come back. I was very lucky."                                Djokovic saved two match points to beat Federer in the 2010 US Open semi-final  French Open, 2011, SF (outdoor clay) - Federer 7-6 6-3 3-6 7-6                          Federer celebrates ending Djokovic\'s long unbeaten run at the 2011 French Open             Djokovic came into this match - played in early June - unbeaten for the season. His remarkable winning run stood at 43 and few expected it to end at the hands of Federer, who was beginning to be labelled yesterday\'s man. But Federer rolled back the years. Not only did he fend off Djokovic with a fine serving display but, more surprisingly, he more than held his own from the back of the court. Federer opened a two-set lead but Djokovic launched his fightback by taking the third. He also served to level the match in the fourth only for Federer to retrieve the break. With the light fading, Federer knew he had to win the ensuing the tie-break or come back the next day, but take it he did, celebrating by wagging a single finger in the air - an action most saw as a suggestion that he should still be considered the world\'s best player.US Open, 2011, SF (outdoor hard) - Djokovic 6-7 4-6 6-3 6-2 7-5                          The Serb came out on top again at Flushing Meadows a year later             Talk about history repeating itself. Twelve months on from their thriller in New York, Djokovic again saved two match points - this time with Federer serving - with his go-for-broke, nothing-to-lose attitude reaping dividends once more. Having trailed by two sets to love, the Serb had stormed back into the match only to fall a break down in the decider as Federer found a second wind. But with Federer serving for the match at 40-15 it all went wrong. The match is best remembered for the first of those match points, Djokovic unleashing on a forehand return which he powered cross-court for a clean winner. He raised his arms in celebration, whipping the crowd into a frenzy. The second match point was saved too and the tide had turned. Minutes later he was again celebrating a remarkable victory.                                History repeated itself a year later as Djokovic beat Federer in the US Open semi-final  Wimbledon, 2014, F (outdoor grass) - Djokovic 6-7 6-4 7-6 5-7 6-4                          Djokovic beat Federer in a thriller in the 2014 Wimbledon final             Wimbledon in 2014 saw the second Grand Slam final between the pair and what a match it was. Two tie-breaks in the opening three sets help show just how tight the contest was, although when the Serb opened a 5-2 lead in the fourth the Swiss\' dreams of an 18th Grand Slam title looked dead in the water. But he saved championship point as Djokovic wobbled, losing five games in a row as the Centre Court crowd were whipped into a frenzy by their hero\'s comeback. The drama continued when Djokovic needed treatment following a fall in the decider and it was hard to pick a winner as the set progressed. Federer sailed close to the wind when saving three break points at 3-4 but finally cracked in his next service game, Djokovic winning the title for a second time and regaining the world No 1 spot in the process.Wimbledon, 2015 F (outdoor grass) - Djokovic 7-6 6-7 6-4 6-3Last year\'s Wimbledon saw the two players meet again in the final, and unfortunately for Federer, it was the same outcome. With the Swiss approaching his 34th birthday, and having dispatched home favourite Andy Murray in the semi-final, the Centre Court crowd pleaded for a Federer win. But this was to be the final where Djokovic displayed his ruthless streak. When Federer won a dramatic second set tie-break - saving four set points along the way - to level the match at one set all, the stage seemed set for another titanic five-set battle. Instead, the world No 1 broke early in the third before rain brought proceedings to a halt. It was only a temporary reprieve for Federer though,as Djokovic served out the set and then broke again in the fourth to secure his ninth Grand Slam title.US Open, 2015 F (outdoor hard) - Djokovic\xc2\xa06-4 5-7 6-4 6-4Top-ranked \xe2\x80\x8bDjokovic vanquished long-time rival Federer and a hostile home crowd to clinch his 10th major title with a four-set victory at the US Open. Federer has been back to his dazzling best at Flushing Meadows and enjoyed the almost complete backing of the American support, but Djokovic showed his iron-will again to move\xc2\xa0just one short of Bjorn Borg in the Open era\'s all-time champions list.It was more Grand Slam misery for the 34-year-old Swiss who, for the second consecutive major, reached the final only to be denied an 18th title by Djokovic.By purchasing a Sky Sports Day Pass for \xc2\xa36.99 or Sky Sports Week Pass for \xc2\xa310.99, you can enjoy access to all seven Sky Sports channels\xc2\xa0and watch on a TV with a NOW TV Box or on a range of devices.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'