URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11686/10974057/watford-201718-season-preview-will-marco-silva-bring-success
TITLE:b'Watford 2017/18 season preview: Will Marco Silva bring success? | Football News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b"Sky Sports, Watford, Football, Soccer, News, Mart Poom, Scott Loach, Richard Lee, Matthew Sadler, Leigh Bromby, Jay DeMerit, Lloyd Doyley, Jon Harley, Adrian Mariappa, Cedric Avinel, Jordan Parkes, Dale Bennett, Eddie Oshodi, John Eustace, Lee Williamson, Alhassan Bangura, Tommy Smith, Gareth Williams, John O'Toole, Billy Gibson, Alex Campana, Ross Jenkins, Jobi McAnuff, Tamas Priskin,  Theo Robinson, Will Hoskins, Lewis Young, Liam Henderson "
DATE:04/08/17 5:02pm
DOC ID:245
CONTENT:b"Watford\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 04/08/17 5:02pmWill Watford thrive under Marco Silva? Read our 2017/18 season preview with expert views from Soccer Saturday pundit Paul Merson.Last season's finishing position: 17th (-4)Total points: 40 (-5)FA Cup: Fourth roundEFL Cup: Second roundTop league scorer: Troy Deeney (10)Key stat: Watford ran out of steam under Walter Mazzarri, with the initial improvement they showed under him replaced by a run of just three wins in his final 15 games before he was sacked. They lost each of their six fixtures - failing to score in five of them - with memorable wins over Manchester United and Arsenal not enough to save the Italian.Major ins: Tom Cleverley (Everton, \xc2\xa38m), Kiko Femenia (Alaves, free), Will Hughes (Derby, \xc2\xa38m), Nathaniel Chalobah (Chelsea, \xc2\xa37m)Major outs: Mario Suarez (Guizhou Hengfeng Zhicheng, undisclosed), Steven Berghuis (Feyenoord, undisclosed), Juan Carlos Paredes (released)Will Watford thrive under Silva?MERSE: No, they will get relegated. To have a manager who has enhanced their reputation by being relegated is remarkable. He had the chance to bring in players and didn't achieve what he was brought in for.Will Hughes looked a decent player and he was doing well in the Championship but it is a different challenge entirely stepping up to the Premier League.Which of their players are most excited about watching? MERSE: I always enjoy watching Troy Deeney, he's a proper leader on and off the field. Nathaniel Chalobah is going to face a completely different game. I could have a game for Chelsea every now and then and do alright but this is a different gear. The problem is Watford will go to grounds and get dominated.What are the challenges facing the manager this season? MERSE: I read that they might not give Troy Deeney the captaincy and for me he's kept the club together. If they left him out they'd really struggle and I don't think they've bought well.Paul MersonWhat are their strengths?MERSE: If they get sorted in what's left of the transfer window and Troy Deeney has a good season then they can stay up. They've got a leader who knows the club and will score goals so he'd be their main strength for me.What are their weaknesses? MERSE: I don't think they've bought very well when they needed to strengthen so their weaknesses are exactly the same as last season.Where will they finish this season and why? MERSE: They've not really bought anybody with Premier League experience, and that's why I worry about them. They struggled last season and have no momentum so I'm going to place them 18th.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"