URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/34681/10992502/pruttons-efl-predictions-aston-villa-to-be-beaten-again
TITLE:b"Prutton's EFL predictions: Aston Villa to be beaten again | Football News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, football, news, live, scores, video, breaking, fixtures, results, team, line, ups, preview, review, competitions, premier, UEFA, champions, league, transfer, Arsenal, Liverpool, Manchester, United, City, Utd, Man, Chelsea, Spurs, Everton, Villa, Wenger, Fabregas, Benitez, Torres, Gerrard, Rooney, Ancelotti, Drogba, Adebayor, Mancini, Redknapp, '
DATE:18/08/17 11:48am
DOC ID:26
CONTENT:b"David Prutton\n\n\nNews\n\n                                    Football Expert & Columnist                                            Last Updated: 18/08/17 11:48amDavid Prutton returns with his latest round of predictions ahead of this weekend's Sky Bet EFL matches.But who is our resident expert tipping for victory? Read on to find out...Burton are already in a position where you feel they need something here. They've had a terrible start and, looking forward, their fixtures don't get any easier after this. They're always going to be underdogs but their home form kept them up last season and you feel that will be key for them again.Birmingham have had a solid start with four points from their first three games, and I think they'll nick a win at the Pirelli.Prutton predicts: 0-1 with Clayton Donaldson to score first (28/1 with Sky Bet)August 18, 2017, 7:00pmLive on                         This is a tough one to call. If this was the first game of the season you would fancy Leeds to go there and turn Sunderland over, but it looks like they've got a bit of steel about them now.There was such a funky atmosphere at the Stadium of Light, but Simon Grayson will be hoping to keep turning that around with a few wins. He's a low maintenance character and he's lifted them a bit already. I fancy a high-scoring entertaining draw.Prutton predicts: 2-2 with Lewis Grabban to score first (55/1 with Sky Bet)August 19, 2017, 5:15pmLive on                         Is Steve Bruce in trouble already? It's a bit early in the season for that but he could really use a win on Saturday.He's already asking for patience from the fans and a lot of money has been spent at the club over the last year or so. They may have got a bit carried away with the John Terry signing and they've missed the impact of Jonathan Kodjia at the other end of the pitch.But this feels like a Norwich win to me. If they can get an early goal then the crowd at Villa Park will turn and it could become a difficult afternoon for them.Prutton predicts: 0-2 (12/1 with Sky Bet)A good match-up this. Both sides are still chasing a first league win after being tipped for big things at the start of the season. Lucas Piazon is a huge loss to Fulham and they've also missed Tom Cairney in the last couple of games.There's a presumption that because they both made the top six last year that they'll do it again, but everyone has improved this season and often if you're standing still you're going backwards. I can see them cancelling each other out.Prutton predicts: 1-1 (11/2 with Sky Bet)What a start so far for Ipswich. Mick McCarthy is on a roll and the late win in midweek was a fantastic result. Brentford, however, would have been so frustrated to be denied victory with the last kick of the game against Bristol City and I think they might carry that with them to Portman Road.Joe Garner and Martyn Waghorn look lethal for Ipswich up front and I see another win coming for the Tractor Boys.Prutton predicts: 2-1 (9/1 with Sky Bet)Britt Assombalonga makes a quick return to the City Ground, just after getting off the mark in midweek for his new side. It seems set up for him to haunt his old club. Nottingham Forest's great start came to an abrupt end at Barnsley, while Middlesbrough have won a couple without looking like they've quite reached their absolute best yet.However, Forest will still fancy themselves here and I can see the points being shared.Prutton predicts: 1-1 (5/1 with Sky Bet)What a blow Abel Hernandez getting injured is for Hull. I always felt they were a couple of injuries away from it becoming very, very tough. Their squad is looking an awful lot thinner now and you wonder where the goals are coming from without him.QPR were beaten fairly easily in midweek by Norwich, but they've had two tough back-to-back away trips and they'll be looking forward to getting back to Loftus Road, where I think they'll get back to winning ways.Prutton predicts: 2-1 (9/1 with Sky Bet)This could be the game of the weekend! Cardiff have had an unbelievable start and look very strong but Wolves are a different challenge altogether.You reckon Neil Warnock will be feeling good and will send his side out to have a go, and there should be goals at Molineux on Saturday. High-scoring draw for me, and both sides will be happy to stay unbeaten.Prutton predicts: 2-2 (14/1 with Sky Bet)Bradford have started brilliantly while Blackburn have had a nightmare, especially after being tipped as pre-season favourites.Things aren't looking good so far for Tony Mowbray and Co and I feel as though they could get turned over again here, and it's a slump they'll need to end quickly.Prutton predicts: 2-0 (8/1 with Sky Bet)You worried about Coventry before the start of the season because they've been dropping like a stone, but they've started life excellently in League Two, winning both their opening games and they're still yet to concede a goal.Newport have two draws so far and they'll just be looking to consolidate after just staying up last season. It's hard to see them getting anything from the Ricoh though.Prutton predicts: 2-1 (15/2 with Sky Bet)PLAY \xc2\xa31MILLION SUPER 6!There's a massive \xc2\xa31million jackpot up for grabs in the latest round of the free-to-play Soccer Saturday Super 6 game. Predict six correct scores and you could win big!Click here to make your entry...\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"