URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11675/10970066/tottenham-201718-season-preview-how-will-wembley-affect-spurs
TITLE:b'Tottenham 2017/18 season preview: How will Wembley affect Spurs? | Football News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b"Sky, Sports, Football, Premier League, Premiership, Tottenham Hotspur, Soccer, White Hart Lane, Carling, Cup, Spurs, Harry Redknapp, Champions League, Heurelho Gomes, Cudicini, Bale, Kaboul, Caulker, Naughton, Bassong, Dawson, Corluka, King, Hutton, Woodgate, Assou-Ekotto, Bentley, O'Hara, Huddelstone, Lennon, Jenas, Palacios, Modric, Dos Santos, Kranjcar, rose, Livermore, Pavlyuchenko, Keane, Crouch, Defoe, Obika, van, Vaart, Beckham, Sandro, "
DATE:03/08/17 10:39pm
DOC ID:263
CONTENT:b"Tottenham Hotspur\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 03/08/17 10:39pmHow will playing at Wembley affect Tottenham in the new campaign? Read our 2017/18 season preview with expert views from Soccer Saturday pundit Phil Thompson.Last season's finishing position: 2nd (+1)Total points: 86 (+16)Champions League: Group stageFA Cup: Semi-finalsEFL Cup: Fourth roundTop league scorer: Harry Kane (29)Key stat: Tottenham's points return would have been enough to win the title in 11 other Premier League seasons, with their best total of 86 and their goal difference of 60, the highest of a non-title winning team. In turn, Tottenham finished above Arsenal in the table for the first time in 22 years.Major ins: NoneMajor outs: Kyle Walker (Manchester City, \xc2\xa350m), Federico Fazio (Roma, undisc), Clinton N'Jie (Marseille, undisc)How will playing at Wembley affect Spurs?THOMMO: I think they will come to terms with playing at Wembley. They only had a few games there in the Champions League last year, but I think they will turn it into a home fixture.Which of their players are you most excited about watching? THOMMO: Probably Dele Alli. You look at players who can make things happen behind a frontman and we've seen tremendous progress from him. I think making those great runs into the box is such an important thing in football and he's got that understanding. Now it's how he develops physically and matures as a player.What are the challenges facing the manager this season? THOMMO: I love the romance of not spending lots of money. That could change before the close of the window, but it's admirable how they are doing it.However, I saw the way Liverpool didn't do any business in January when the club started to struggle and it cost them. I can tell you from my experience that you do need that freshness of new faces in the dressing room to spark that excitement and competitiveness.As a player, I always looked forward to the challenge of new players coming in and I do think they do need to do some business, if only to liven up the dressing room. I think players can get too comfortable sometimes, thinking that their positions are safe, knowing players aren't going to take them.What are their strengths?THOMMO: I do still expect Spurs to be challenging with Harry Kane's goals and players behind him who can support that by scoring a few. They finished third, then second, then the opportunity is to strengthen from a position of strength in order to go one better and win the title. They could prove us all wrong and that would delight a lot of purists as they haven't spent a lot of money.What are their weaknesses? THOMMO: It's difficult to pick a weakness. Kieran Trippier has got a better final ball than Kyle Walker, the centre-backs are as strong as there are around and they score goals.However, if the three behind Kane do get injured then the goals could dry up a bit. Mousa Dembele, Eric Dier and Harry Winks aren't going to get many goals, so many if the three behind the supporting three don't provide then Kane is carrying a lot of the burden.Everton seem to be pricing Spurs out of Ross Barkley. I don't think \xc2\xa350m is going to happen. His wage demands are going to have to come down and he might have to accept that. Spurs might have to look elsewhere, maybe even at bringing back Gylfi Sigurdsson.Where will they finish this season and why? THOMMO: I hate giving predictions now because we don't know who will come through the door. They could make some fantastic signings, as could most, but as things stand I think Spurs will finish fifth.Back Tottenham at odds of 1/6 with Sky Bet to finish in the top six this season or odds at 8/11 to end the campaign in the top four.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"