URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11698/10974036/west-brom-201718-season-preview-what-is-success-for-tony-pulis-men
TITLE:b"West Brom 2017/18 season preview: What is success for Tony Pulis' men? | Football News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, Football, Premier League, Premiership, WBA, Soccer, Hawthorns, West, Brom, Albion, Carling, FA, Cup, Kiely, Carson, Myhill, Tamas, Mattock, Olsson, Cech, Barnett, Ziverloon, Meite, Downing, Jara, Ibanez, Koren, Brunt, Barnes, Thomas, Dorrans, Mulumbu, Morrison, Greening, Knight, Sawyers, Reid, Elford-Alliyu, Bednar, Miller, Wood, Moore, Slory, Cox, Shorey, Roberto, Di Mattero, Wilson,'
DATE:04/08/17 5:04pm
DOC ID:272
CONTENT:b"West Bromwich Albion\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 04/08/17 5:04pmWhat is success for Tony Pulis' men this year? Read our West Brom 2017/18 season preview with the views of Soccer Saturday pundit Paul Merson.Last season's finishing position: 10th (+4)Total points: 45 (+2)FA Cup: Third roundEFL Cup: Second roundTop league scorer: Salomon Rondon (8)                    Pick your team, create a league and invite your mates for free here                 Key stat: Consistency and experience were crucial for West Brom as they recorded their best league finish in four years. They made the fewest changes to their team throughout the campaign of any Premier League club (49) and the average age of their team was 29 years and 322 days, the oldest of any of the 20 competing teams.Major ins: Jay Rodriguez (Southampton, \xc2\xa315m) Ahmed Hegazi (Al Ahly, loan)Major outs: Darren Fletcher (Stoke, free), Craig Gardener (Birmingham, undisclosed)What is success for West Brom?MERSE: They'll be alright because they've got Tony Pulis. Tony Pulis is another five-six places better than what West Brom would be without him. I think with Gary Megson going there as well they will be very difficult to beat. They're another team that are not going to get relegated or in the top six so why not have a good go in the cup? It's a good, well-supported club and it would be good to have a good run in the cup. You've got five teams in the Champions League, Arsenal desperate to get back into the top four, Everton in the Europa League, so it's a perfect season for the other teams to have a go.Which of their players are you most excited about watching? MERSE: I will be interested to see if Jay Rodriguez can get going. He hasn't been the same since his injury and that's understandable but he can still be a dark horse for making the World Cup squad if he can rediscover his best form.What are the challenges facing the manager this season? MERSE: To try to score more goals. At the end of the day, if you keep a clean sheet you only need one goal to win a game. Bournemouth could never win a game with one goal but West Brom can - but even that is a struggle at times.What are their strengths?MERSE: They're very solid at the back, good defenders, great at set-plays. A lot of strengths in those departments.What are their weaknesses? I think creating a lot of chances. They're not going to create enough to win a lot of football matches unless they keep a lot of clean sheets.Where will they finish this season and why? I'm going for 13th. I can't see them being in a relegation battle but I'd like to see them focus their energy on the cups rather than a top-half finish.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"