URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11741/10969814/brighton-201718-season-preview-will-the-seagulls-stay-up
TITLE:b'Brighton 2017/18 season preview: Will the Seagulls stay up? | Football News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky Sports, Football, Soccer, Brighton, Hove, Albion, Michel Kuipers, John Sullivan, Whing, Kerry Mayo, Adam Hinshelwood, Adam El-Abd, Matthew Richards, Colin Hawkins, Adam Virgo, Elphick, Kane Wills, Steve Cook, Dean Cox, Steven Thomson, Kevin McLeod, Livermore, Gary Hart, Bradley Johnson, Doug Loft, Tommy Fraser, Anyinsah, Scott Chamberlain, Wes Fogden, Kevin Thornton, Nicky Forster, Stuart Fleetwood, Glenn Murray, Jake Robinson, Jonny Dixon'
DATE:09/08/17 12:27pm
DOC ID:289
CONTENT:b"Brighton\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 09/08/17 12:27pmWhat does Brighton's first Premier League season hold in store? We take a look in our 2017/18 season preview.Last season's finishing position: 2nd (Championship, +1)Total points: 93 (+4)FA Cup: Fourth roundEFL Cup: Third roundTop league scorer: Glenn Murray (23)Key stat: Brighton had a habit of allowing the impact of defeats to linger last season. They lost just 11 times in 51 games in all competitions but eight of them came in pairs. Most significant was following up a 2-0 reverse at Norwich with a surprise 1-0 loss to Bristol City in their penultimate game . Those results wrecked their title hopes.Major ins: Davy Propper (PSV Eindhoven, \xc2\xa310m), Matthew Ryan (Valencia, \xc2\xa36m), Pascal Gross (FC Ingolstadt 04, \xc2\xa32.55m), Josh Kerr (Celtic, free), Markus Suttner (FC Ingolstadt 04, undisc), Izzy Brown (Chelsea, loan)Major outs: Vegard Forren (FK Molde, free), David Stockdale (Birmingham, free), Oliver Norwood (Fulham, loan)Will Hughton keep Brighton up?MERSE: I hope he can because he's a good manager but I just don't think they've bought a lot. It's a great pitch, a great ground, a great place to go but I'd be shocked if they stayed up. I hope they do but I'm going to say no.Which of their players are most excited about watching? MERSE: Anthony Knockaert is the one I'm looking forward to seeing make the step up. I thought he ripped up the Sky Bet Championship last season. He was head and shoulders above them all and I'm surprised nobody has come in for him. He's one of those who get you on the edge of the seat. If he has a good six months I'd be surprised he stays there.What are the challenges facing the manager this season? MERSE: I think the biggest challenge is the contrast in the standard they're playing against. They are going to be in for a hiding in certain games with teams putting four or five past them. It's about how they react. That's the advantage of teams who have been in the Premier League before. You can lose three on a trot and be left wondering when you're going to win another football match. Keeping the confidence during those spells is a big test.Paul MersonWhat are their strengths?MERSE: I think their togetherness. To bounce back from the bad luck of the last few seasons to make it, you couldn't write the story they've come through to make the Premier League. They've also got the momentum from finally achieving their dream.What are their weaknesses? MERSE: I don't think they'll create enough chances or score enough goals to keep them in the Premier League. I watched them a fair bit last season and I'm not sure they'll score enough goals.Where will they finish this season and why? MERSE: I'm afraid I don't see them staying up because of their summer business. I'm going for 19th.Fancy Brighton to prove Merse wrong? Back the Seagulls to survive at 8/13 with Sky Bet.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"