URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/32498/10943775/andy-murray-reaches-quarter-finals-to-stay-on-course-for-third-wimbledon-title
TITLE:b'Andy Murray reaches quarter-finals to stay on course for third Wimbledon title | Tennis News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, Tennis, News, PC, Headlines, Top Story, Betting, Results, Live, Highlights, Rankings, ATP, Schedule, WTA, Schedule, Wimbledon, Photos, Quiz, Tour, Davis, Cup, US, Open, Andy, Murray, Roger, Federer, Rafael, Nadal, Novak, Djokovic, Nikolay, Davydenko, Roddick, Masters, Jelena, Jankovic, Serena, Williams, Ana, Ivanovic, Maria, Sharapova, Australian, watch, tv, pc, video'
DATE:12/07/17 2:08pm
DOC ID:290
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 12/07/17 2:08pmAndy Murray became only the third man to record 10 straight quarter-final appearances at a Grand Slam by seeing off unorthodox Frenchman Benoit Paire.The world No 1 joined legends Roger Federer and Jimmy Connors on the list after following up his victories over Alexander Bublik, Dustin Brown and Fabio Fognini with a successful 7-6 (7-1) 6-4 6-4 win against Paire.                    Johanna Konta reaches Wimbledon quarter-finals                With Johanna Konta defeating Caroline Garcia to seal her spot in the last eight it meant Murray and Konta became the British man and woman to reach the quarter-finals at Wimbledon since 1973 when Roger Taylor and Virginia Wade made it through.                    Who will win the 2017 Wimbledon men\'s title?                The unpredictable Paire, who was in the last 16 for the first time, shared the better of three early breaks of serve to take a 4-2 lead before Murray showed his powers of recovery to take it into a tiebreak.Paire promptly lost the first six points and Murray took it with a handsome 7-1 scoreline to the relief of a packed Centre Court crowd.World No 46 Paire once declared that Wimbledon "displeases me greatly" after a first-round loss and was famously kicked off the French Olympic team last year in Rio, but he was showing more consistency this year, and looked a real danger at times by combining his powerful first serve with volleys and regular drop shots.                    Andy Murray\'s potential route to 2017 Wimbledon glory                When Paire struck with the sixth break of serve in the match to level at 3-3 it seemed as though the momentum had swung his way. However, Murray used all his experience to break through again in the 10th game and seal the set.The pressure eventually told on Paire when he netted on the forehand side to hand Murray the opportunity to serve out the match. And the top seed duly obliged with some huge groundstrokes to come through in two hours and 21 minutes and extend his dominant record against French players to 96-14.He will next take on 24th seed Sam Querrey for a place in the semi-finals.For those on the move, we will have Wimbledon covered via our website skysports.com/tennis and then click through to our dedicated section skysports.com/tennis/wimbledon. On the move? Head to our app for mobile devices and iPad, or follow our Twitter account @SkySportsTennis to join in the conversation. Who will win the All England Club titles this summer? Have your say...                    How Andy Murray has fared at Wimbledon down the years                Sky customers can now upgrade to Sky Sports for an unmissable summer of sport. Upgrade now!\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'