URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11661/10932498/jack-wilshere-joe-hart-calum-chambers-whos-back-from-loan-and-what-now
TITLE:b"Jack Wilshere, Joe Hart, Calum Chambers: Who's back from loan and what now? | Football News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, Football, News, Premier, League, Fixtures, Results, Tables, Photos, Transfer, Centre, Arsenal, Aston Villa, Birmingham City, Blackburn Rovers, Bolton Wanderers, Burnley, Chelsea, Everton, Fulham, Hull City, Liverpool, Manchester City, Man City, Manchester United, Man Utd, Portsmouth, Stoke City, Sunderland, Tottenham Hotspur, Spurs, West Ham, Wigan Athletic, Wolverhampton Wanderers, Wolves, watch, video, live, pc. torress, benitez'
DATE:03/07/17 11:27am
DOC ID:307
CONTENT:b'Premier League\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 03/07/17 11:27amA number of players have returned to their parent clubs following loan spells away in 2016/17 but could they make an impact or will their futures lie elsewhere? Arsenal\'s Jack Wilshere, Manchester City\'s Joe Hart and Manchester United\'s Adnan Januzaj are among the players who are back with their regular employers.Here\'s a reminder of some of the men returning home and their possible next move...Wojciech Szczesny - Roma Once tipped to be Arsenal\'s next great No 1, Szczesny has instead spent the last two seasons with Roma following Petr Cech\'s switch to the Emirates. He has impressed in Serie A, though, and looked set to complete a permanent move to Juventus earlier this summer. Talk of a move to the Champions League finalists persists.Jack Wilshere - BournemouthAnother player once touted for great things, injury problems have held Wilshere back for his entire career and he was sent to Bournemouth on loan to get some much-needed first-team action. He made 27 appearances but his form tailed off throughout the season and he is set to miss Arsenal\'s summer tour after breaking his leg back in April."At the end of the season, when I sit down and think about [my future], playing will be a big factor," he said. "I need to play, that\'s why I came here. Bournemouth gave me that opportunity."West Ham are a reported option for the 2017/18 campaign but co-owner David Gold insists he is prioritising strikers and Wilshere\'s next move remains up in the air.Joel Campbell - Sporting LisbonCampbell had a fifth loan switch away from Arsenal since 2011 after joining Sporting Lisbon on a season-long deal. However, he struggled to force his way into the side, making just 18 appearances and scoring three times. Campbell is out of contract next year and has been linked in the British media with moves to Aston Villa and Besiktas.Calum Chambers - MiddlesbroughThe young defender\'s career appeared to be stalling before an impressive season on loan at Middlesbrough, despite their relegation, and a solid campaign for England at the European U21 Championship.Insisting he is gunning to make an impression back at the Emirates, he said: "(Last) season has been so important for me, playing games as a centre-back. The experience I have gained in that position is so valuable to me. I just feel it\'s just pushed me on another level."Andreas Christensen - Borussia MonchengladbachThe Danish youngster has made just three appearances for Chelsea, but a hugely successful two-year loan spell in the Bundesliga has seen many tipping him for the very top. Will have plenty of admirers if Antonio Conte opts not to involve him in the first team.Baba Rahman - SchalkeOne of many left-backs signed by Chelsea in the past few years in a bid to find a long-term replacement for Ashley Cole, Rahman is currently recovering from a long-term injury suffered at the Africa Cup of Nations. The form of Marcos Alonso and potential arrival of Alex Sandro suggest that the Ghana international is set for another move away from Stamford Bridge.Loic Remy - Crystal PalaceThe Frenchman failed to make any impression at all during an injury-hit season at Crystal Palace. Remy managed just eight appearances in all competitions and failed to score. Chelsea are reportedly ready to cut their losses and The Sun claims Marseille are keen.A number of other players also have their futures up in the air as they prepare to return to Stamford Bridge. Tammy Abraham looks set to join Swansea on loan, but Lewis Baker, Kasey Palmer, Michael Hector, Izzy Brown, Kenedy, Marco van Ginkel and Lucas Piazon are among those in summer limbo.Tom Lawrence - IpswichLawrence was undoubtedly Ipswich\'s star man in an underwhelming Championship campaign last season. The 23-year-old has attracted plenty of interest and another move to the second tier could be on the cards.Danny Ward - HuddersfieldImpressed as Huddersfield were promoted to the Premier League, and David Wagner has previously intimated that he hopes to bring Ward back. "I will have a lot of phone calls to make," said Wagner. "I will call Jurgen [Klopp], but not just to talk about Danny."Mamadou Sakho - Crystal PalaceSakho had such an impact at Palace that he was nominated for their Player of the Season award despite playing just eight times in the Premier League. The Frenchman played a vital role in helping them stay up and, despite returning to pre-season training at Liverpool last month, a stay on Merseyside looks unlikely.Jon Flanagan - BurnleyFlanagan would have been hoping to get his career back on track at Burnley after a nightmare couple of years with injury, but it didn\'t really work out for him at Turf Moor. The full-back is now back at Liverpool and hoping to force his way into Jurgen Klopp\'s plans for next season.Lazar Markovic - HullMarkovic has had three loan spells in the last two seasons away from Anfield, but he couldn\'t help keep Hull in the Premier League after joining for the second half of the season. The arrival of Mohamed Salah suggests the Serbian\'s future lies away from Anfield.Joe Hart - TorinoHart\'s return to City seemed like a possibility when it became clear that Claudio Bravo\'s move to the Etihad was a mistake on Pep Guardiola\'s part, but the signing of Ederson suggests that England\'s No 1 will be on the move again."I\'d love to be withholding information about my future, but I don\'t have the information to withhold," he said in June. "My personal situation is interesting and patience is going to have to be the key."Samir Nasri - SevillaNasri scored twice during a La Liga spell with Sevilla but Pep Guardiola is not thought to have the former Arsenal man in his plans.City want around \xc2\xa312m for Nasri, according to reports in British media, but with Sevilla unwilling to pay that much, Nasri remains in limbo for now. Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua are keen on the French international, according to The Sun.Eliaquim Mangala - ValenciaThe Frenchman still has two years on his contract at the Etihad, but will be looking for another club after Valencia decided against making the loan move for him permanent. Unlikely to force his way into Guardiola\'s plans, and Lyon have been linked as a potential destination.Wilfried Bony - StokeBony failed to make any impression at Stoke last season, scoring just twice in 10 appearances, but he is determined to impress at City and continue his career there."I love the club, the fans," Bony told Sky Sports News HQ. "I want to show that Wilfried Bony is still the same player. I\'ve been through a difficult time. Leading the goalscoring two years ago, it\'s still me, nothing has changed, just a difficult time. I just want to show them I can do more than that so I just need to get myself ready."Otherwise, Patrick Roberts looks set for a permanent move away after a successful 18-month spell at Celtic, while Jason Denayer looks unlikely to break into the City first-team after an underwhelming stint at Sunderland.Adnan Januzaj - SunderlandOnce tipped to be the next big thing at Old Trafford, Januzaj has drifted badly in recent years and last season failed to score in 25 Premier League appearances for relegated Sunderland. Real Sociedad are a potential destination if he leaves this summer.Sam Johnstone - Aston VillaImpressed on loan at Villa Park in the second half of last season and boss Steve Bruce is hoping to bring him back for his first full campaign in charge of the club."If there\'s an opportunity that we can get him to play more next season I would love to do it," Bruce said. "I will be having that conversation with Mr Mourinho when the time is right. But I hope we can extend it."Siem de Jong - PSV EindhovenDe Jong remarkably still has three years left on his deal at Newcastle, but is unlikely to force his way back into Rafa Benitez\'s Premier League plans having been allowed to leave on loan following their relegation. He did impress back in the Dutch league last season, though, so will be hoping to catch the eye in pre-season and trying to stay injury free.Tim Krul - AZ AlkmaarSent out on loan to regain match fitness following a long injury, an initial move to Ajax didn\'t work out for Krul before a second switch to AZ proved more fruitful."It\'s been a while - I\'m looking forward to going back there after completing my loan at AZ," he said. "I\'ve been at Newcastle for 11 seasons. It\'s part of my life - a massive part of my life."Joselu - Deportivo La CorunaJoselu struggled in his first season at Stoke in 2015/16 and didn\'t do an awful lot Deportivo on loan, although he did manage to score against Barcelona and Real Madrid, netting five times in total.He is open to a return to Stoke, saying: "I have two years left at Stoke. We hope to have solutions as soon as possible and if not, I will work non-stop in pre-season."Kyle Bartley, Matt Grimes and Mo Barrow - LeedsA trio of Swansea players who joined up with former club boss Garry Monk at Leeds, only Bartley could consider it a real success as he emerged as a key defender in their seventh-placed finish.Paul Clement wants to keep him at the club next season, saying: "He\'s had a good season, we\'ve spoken on the telephone and said well done. It\'s unusual loan players captaining the side, he\'s done well, but from our point of view I\'m looking forward him coming back and working with him."Grimes managed just 12 appearances in all competitions, while Barrow played just five times in the Championship in the second half of the season.Federico Fazio - RomaEmerged as a key player for Roma as they finished second in Serie A, missing just one game all season and making 48 appearances in total. His form has seen a return to the Argentina squad, but it remains to be seen whether Mauricio Pochettino is convinced of his worth to Spurs in the final year of his contract.Enner Valencia - EvertonOne of the more surprising loan moves of last season saw Valencia switch to Goodison Park, but he managed just three goals in 23 appearances and Everton chose not to make the move permanent.There is interest in Valencia from elsewhere, with Sky sources understanding that a bid from Mexican side Tigres was turned down by West Ham last week.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'