URL:http://www.skysports.com/watch/tv-shows/sportswomen/news/10497070/serena-williams-tells-of-joy-at-equalling-steffi-grafs-grand-slam-record
TITLE:b'Jubilant Williams admits relief | News | SportsWomen | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:None
DOC ID:336
CONTENT:b'By Raz Mirza\nLast Updated: 09/07/16 5:41pmSerena Williams poses with the winner\'s trophy at WimbledonSerena Williams admitted she was relieved to finally clinch a record-equalling 22nd Grand Slam title after beating Angelique Kerber in the Wimbledon final on Saturday.After losing in the US Open semi-finals in 2015 and in the finals of the Australian and French Open this year, the top seed finally drew level with Steffi Graf\'s Open era record of major titles by retaining her crown at the All England Club.The 34-year-old shrugged off the weight of history on her shoulders, defeating German fourth seed Kerber 7-5 6-3 to secure a seventh Wimbledon title and a long-awaited share of Graf\'s landmark."I had a couple of tries this year and lost to great opponents. That makes the victory even sweeter."Serena Williams"It\'s been incredibly difficult not to think about," Williams said in an interview on Centre Court."I had a couple of tries this year and lost to great opponents. That makes the victory even sweeter, to know how hard I worked for it. This is awesome."This court definitely feels like home. I love playing out here. I don\'t know what else to say. I\'m so excited, thank you!"Angelique Kerber and Serena Williams compete for a pointIn her ninth Wimbledon final, Serena was pushed hard by Kerber before avenging her loss to the 28-year-old in the Australian Open final.Williams was quick to pay tribute to Kerber and also saluted her entourage, which included her coach Patrick Mouratoglou, sister Venus and pop music royalty Beyonce and Jay-Z."Angelique - I love playing her, she brings out great tennis in me and off court she\'s a wonderful person to be around," the world No 1 said.Serena Williams and Angelique Kerber embrace post-match"It\'s such a great feeling to be out here. To my family and whole team - thank you so much. It\'s just been great. "Despite the frustration of losing her first Wimbledon final, Kerber, who was hoping to become the first German woman to triumph at the All England Club since Graf in 1996, had no complaints about playing second fiddle to Serena."First of all I would like to say congrats to Serena. You really deserve it, you are a great champion, a great person," Kerber said."It\'s always an honour to play against her and it\'s the best feeling to play here on Centre Court."Join the conversation on our Facebook page. We will have regular interviews and features along with the latest health and lifestyle tipsWe asked some of the biggest names in women\'s sport what motivates them, what they can\'t do without. Here\'s what they had to say....Natasha Jonas - the first female British boxer to fight at the Olympics - talks about the exercises she did during pregnancy and after the birth of her baby. \n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'