URL:http://www.skysports.com/more-sports/other-sports/news/29877/10952996/sky-sports-push-notifications-faq-how-to-receive-the-alerts-you-want
TITLE:b'Sky Sports Push Notifications FAQ: How to receive the alerts you want |  News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:21/07/17 12:05pm
DOC ID:387
CONTENT:b"News\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 21/07/17 12:05pmA new Sky Sports is here with a range of new dedicated channels alongside a relaunched mobile app - which now gives you the option to receive the news alerts you want.Once you have updated to the new app, you can filter Sky Sports' notifications to suit your needs. Read on to find out how...Q: I want to be notified when a big sports news story breaks, but I don't want to sign up to receive individual sports alerts. Can I do that?A: Yes! Simply tap on 'Breaking News' and we'll send you a notification when a big story emerges. This way, you'll be notified when a top story arrives - but you won't receive daily individual sports alerts.Q: I'm a football fan, but I'm keen to know when a big sports story breaks. I want to get all the latest football news, but would like to know who's won the British GP and the result of a big Box Office event, for example. Is that possible?A: It is! If you're keen on getting dedicated news alerts from an individual sport but want to know when a big sports story breaks, make sure you tap on the sport you love along with 'Breaking News'. This way, you'll be notified of a big story without having to subscribe to another sport.Q: I want to receive the latest football, cricket, rugby union and darts news. Can I subscribe to more than one sport?A: Of course! Tap on the sports you love and we'll send you a notification when a story comes in. Click on as many sports as you'd like, and we'll keep you updated. You can choose from Football, Cricket, Rugby Union, Rugby League, Golf, Tennis, Formula One, Boxing, NFL, WWE and Darts.Q: I want to be notified when there's a big event on Sky Sports coming up. Can I get notifications reminding me when a match on Sky Sports Cricket will start, or who's playing on Super Sunday on Sky Sports Premier League?A: Simply select 'Live on Sky' and the sports you watch to receive alerts on the best live action on our dedicated channels.Q: What if I change my mind and want to stop receiving alerts?A: You can toggle sports, Breaking News and Live on Sky on and off as you see fit, then you'll only receive the alerts you want us to send you.Watch more sport than ever beforeWin in our free to enter competitions sectionPlay amazing courses on PC, tablet or mobile!\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"