URL:http://www.skysports.com/football/news/11731/10992753/abraham-i-want-to-win-ballon-dor
TITLE:b"Swansea's Tammy Abraham: I have to dream big... I would love to win the Ballon d'Or | Football News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b"Sky Sports, Swansea City, Football, Soccer, news, Dorus de Vries, Demitrios Konstantopoulos, Ashley Williams, Marcos Painter, Alan Tate, Garry Monk, Federico Bessone, Angel Rangel, Albert Serran, James Burgin, Kristian O'Leary, Ferrie Bodde, Ferrie Bodde, Leon Britton, Darren Pratley, Andrea Orlandi, Mark Gower, Jordi Gomez, Shaun MacDonald, Bessone Fede, Matthew Collins, Jason Scotland, Gorka Pintado, Guillem Bauza, Stefan Morrison, Kerry Morgan"
DATE:18/08/17 2:35pm
DOC ID:410
CONTENT:b'Swansea City\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 18/08/17 2:35pmSwansea striker Tammy Abraham has outlined his ambition to win "major trophies" - and even land the Ballon d\'Or.The 19-year-old joined Swansea on a season-long loan from Chelsea after scoring 26 goals in 48 games for Bristol City last season.Although his start against Southampton last Saturday was only his third appearance in the Premier League, the England Under-21 international has high ambitions as he prepares to face Manchester United this Saturday, live on Sky Sports Premier League.August 19, 2017, 11:30amLive on                         "I would love to win some major trophies and I would love to win the Ballon d\'Or, that would be a perfect career," he told Sky Sports. "It\'s something to push for and work hard for. I have always been ambitious."I have to dream big this year. Last year I would have never dreamed of getting near 30 goals and I got 26 which was a massive thing for me. My dad said this year you have to aim for what you got last year, even beat it...I love it, it drives me and it\'s something to work hard for."After returning to Chelsea in the summer, Abraham was wanted by Swansea, Newcastle and Brighton, but he revealed how a home visit from Swansea manager Paul Clement helped influence his decision."He came to my house and got to know my family," said Abraham. "We made a decision from there that he is someone I would love to work with and he had good ambitions for me. That\'s always nice and that\'s when I decided."You get to know the coach and what he wants and what his plans are for the season and for you. It gives me confidence."It was a big decision and we sat down as a family and put all the facts down and decided Swansea was the place to be. I spoke to staff at Chelsea as well and they said Paul is a fantastic guy and is really going to improve you."Abraham has been with Chelsea since the age of seven and made his first-team debut in a draw at Liverpool in May 2016.He signed a five-year deal with the Premier League champions in July and harbours hopes of succeeding at Stamford Bridge in the future."Chelsea is a fantastic place for young kids," he said. "They develop you, work you hard, and you can see they have top-class talent all around the world."For me it\'s the right place to be. I have always wanted to play for Chelsea as a young kid so it would be nice to get into that team one day."While Abraham\'s long-term ambitions are at Chelsea, this season he is focused on Swansea, with Manchester United in his sights on Saturday."It\'s the biggest game of my career so far," he says. "We need to go into the game and give 100%. This is when you get to see what you are truly made of."I haven\'t got a target this season but I want to help the team as much as I can. We have a fantastic side. The boys showed that towards the end of last season. Hopefully we can take that confidence forward."Watch the full interview with Abraham ahead of Swansea v Manchester United on Sky Sports Premier League and Main Event on Saturday.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'