URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/32500/10323659/why-wimbledon-could-be-key-in-serena-williams-pursuit-of-history
TITLE:b"Why Wimbledon could be key in Serena Williams' pursuit of history | Tennis News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, Tennis, News, PC, Headlines, Top Story, Betting, Results, Live, Highlights, Rankings, ATP, Schedule, WTA, Schedule, Wimbledon, Photos, Quiz, Tour, Davis, Cup, US, Open, Andy, Murray, Roger, Federer, Rafael, Nadal, Novak, Djokovic, Nikolay, Davydenko, Roddick, Masters, Jelena, Jankovic, Serena, Williams, Ana, Ivanovic, Maria, Sharapova, Australian, watch, tv, pc, video'
DATE:09/07/16 3:50pm
DOC ID:415
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 09/07/16 3:50pmSerena Williams is on the brink of history at Wimbledon, and the world No 1 is rising to the challenge after recent disappointments. James Walker-Roberts explains why...Semi-final of the US Open. Final of the Australian Open. Final of the French Open.It\'s been a case of so near yet so far for Serena Williams over the past year. Steffi Graf\'s Open era record of 22 majors is within touching distance but has not yet been obtainable.Graf herself had nearly three years between winning her 21st and 22nd major, although she was troubled by injuries during those times.Injuries have not been the problem for Williams, at least nothing that has been made known. In the US Open last year perhaps the pressure of the calendar slam played a part as she was beaten by Roberta Vinci in the semi-finals.In Australia earlier this year she could not find way a past the brilliant defence of Angelique Kerber while at the French Open she was simply outhit by Garbine Muguruza.Is the landscape of women\'s tennis changing? Or is Williams still the dominant force?Wimbledon will provide some sort of an answer. After all, Williams has won six times at SW19 - the same number of victories as at the Australian and \xc2\xa0Opens. London was also the venue of her last major victory in 2015.And she will start as the strong favourite, despite recent disappointments and the fact that, as in recent years, she has not played any competitive warm-up matches on grass. But the pressure is on.                    The defending champions head the rankings                Not only would failure to win at SW19 be another mental blow, and mean she could not surpass Graf\'s record until at least the start of 2017, but she could also lose the No 1 ranking.At the start of Wimbledon, Williams will have held the WTA top spot for 176 weeks since returning there on February 13, 2013. The record is 186 weeks, held by Graf.However, if Williams fails to make the final at Wimbledon and Muguruza wins the title, then the Spaniard will claim the No 1 spot.The pair have recent history at majors too. They met in the final at SW19 last year, with Williams winning in straight sets, and then again in the final at Roland Garros a few weeks ago, with Muguruza reversing the scoreline to secure her first major title.Muguruza said she "didn\'t used to like grass at all", but added: "I\'ve learned to love it more lately, with time. And then reaching the final at Wimbledon, that was something so special."While the 22-year-old is brimming with confidence, Sky Sports tennis expert Barry Cowan thinks the pressure of equalling Graf\'s record is weighing Williams down."It looks to me that she wants to equal it so badly that sometimes it can be at the detriment of being able to play your best tennis and she seems a little inhibited at the moment," said Cowan after the French Open final.But Cowan still expects Williams to be triumphant at Wimbledon. "I\'m sure she\'ll feel a little happy going onto grass where she is certainly more dangerous. I think she will do it because what I see from Serena is that burning desire to do it and when you have that burning desire, incredible talent as well as experience, it certainly adds in her favour."Williams herself said she is happy with her form heading into the third major of the year. "I feel I\'m playing well. I\'m happy to be here and I love playing on the grass."Asked by Sky Sports about equalling Graf\'s record, Williams said: "My whole life I have been driven to do well and win Grand Slams and to be the best I could. I never thought I would be going to equal her record, when you reach that point it\'s like this is cool. It\'s been an interesting experience and has been great to have this opportunity to do this."                    Milos Raonic hopes John McEnroe will help him go the distance                Few doubt that Williams will eventually match or surpass Graf\'s record, but it is no longer as clear cut as it seemed a year ago when she lifted the Wimbledon trophy. When she won that tournament she was the oldest winner of a major at 33; this September she will turn 35.Since winning Wimbledon last year she has won just one title, and there have been signs that her competition is improving.                    A look back at the British number one\'s Wimbledon record                Muguruza has soared up the rankings in the last 12 months and Victoria Azarenka impressed early in 2016 before again being disrupted by injuries.But nobody, Muguruza included, has yet shown they are ready to dominate the sport like Williams, even though the gap between the world No 1 and the rest might be getting smaller.Williams herself says she does not see an end game yet, but Wimbledon could be significant in her pursuit of history. Not only would a win draw her level with Graf\'s Open era record, but\xc2\xa0Margaret Court\'s all-time record of 24 majors would be within sight too. Defeat, however, would make both seem that little bit further away.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'