URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/32455/10894219/weve-asked-our-panel-of-experts-some-key-questions-ahead-of-the-french-open
TITLE:b"We've asked our panel of experts some key questions ahead of the French Open | Tennis News | Sky Sports"
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:28/05/17 10:25am
DOC ID:424
CONTENT:b"Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 28/05/17 10:25amWill it be Rafa's 'La Decima'? Can Novak produce the goods or will we see a new star in Paris? Barry Cowan, Mark Petchey and Peter Fleming answer all the key questions.We've already asked our panel of experts whether or not world No 1 Andy Murray can find his form and win the French Open, but now it's time for the favourites, young stars and dark horses.Barry CowanHis return to form has been exceptional, I saw it right from the beginning of the year and I think he's got better and better. Nothing would have affected his mentality with that defeat against Dominic Thiem in Rome, but I think Rafa is playing his best tennis since 2013 so I see him as the overwhelming favourite.Mark PetcheyHe's favourite going in although I wouldn't say he's red-hot favourite and head and shoulders above the rest, but he's certainly played some wonderful tennis. He looks like someone who is back to being dominant on this surface to a large degree - he will start as favourite.Peter FlemingHe's definitely the favourite and with the way everybody else has been playing I think that he's pretty clear-cut.                    Mark Petchey looks at the changes Rafael Nadal has made to dominate again on clay                Barry CowanI said during Madrid that I felt Novak would be playing his best tennis after Wimbledon. I think he's improving, and you can never write off a great champion, but he has under-performed in the big matches going back to the US Open final and at the ATP World Tour Finals. There are a few issues with him mentally but that's where I think Agassi will be a huge help. I think he needs things to go for him in Paris.                    Can latest 'super coach' Andre Agassi inspire Novak Djokovic to French Open glory?                Mark PetcheyIt's not just a great appointment for him, it's actually a better appointment for all of us fans and for people in tennis that Andre is back to this degree. He is a genuine superstar and is the reason why people watch this sport - he is that kind of magnetic, charismatic tennis player on and off the court. He can only be a benefit to Novak.Peter FlemingIt might be just a couple of weeks too soon for Djokovic, but let's face it, he's had a lot of things going through his mind. Just to have someone that he really admires in his corner is a really good thing for him. If he manages to get to the semi-finals and plays Nadal, then he is the one guy whose game really fits well with Rafa and he has a really good chance of winning that match. The bigger quest for him is to get there.                    Barry Cowan, Mark Petchey and Peter Fleming have their say on Murray's hopes                Barry CowanHe's going to win Grand Slams and he's going to be world No 1. I've always believed that Zverev is destined for greatness - I think he has absolutely everything - and that has been shown with his improvement in his tennis every single week. For the first time people are talking about him potentially winning the French Open and when you win a Masters 1000 event like he did in Rome - in such spectacular style - that's only right, but it also brings added pressure. If he gets to the quarter-finals then that is very, very positive.Mark PetcheyI want to say that he can win it. He does equal damage off both wings which very few players can do, and I do feel his serve is better than it was at the start of the season. More importantly, he reacts well to adversity. Tennis-wise, I can see him as a French Open champion this year, but physically over five sets, that's the bigger challenge. At his age it's difficult, but is it doable? I think it is.Peter FlemingHe could do some damage, but I can't imagine him beating Nadal on clay. He'll be feeling some pressure ahead of his opening match against Fernando Verdasco. If he can get to the quarter-finals, then I think he's doing really well.Barry CowanI think he's ready and he's shown the tennis world what he is capable of. His level on the clay over a consistent period of time has been phenomenal - he's won a lot of titles on this surface. I certainly see a Thiem-Djokovic quarter-final, but I think it will be different to how it was in Rome [Djokovic won 6-1 6-0]. It's going to be tight and if it does get tight and goes to five let's say then I don't see any reason why Thiem can't win it. He believes his best tennis is good enough to beat any of those top guys.Mark PetcheyObviously the experience of a semi-final run last year will hold him in good stead. I think over five sets he's one of those guys that has built a reputation of endurance and you know you're going to have to run because of how hard he hits the ball and spreads the play. His net game is not as competent yet and I think it will be difficult for him to beat the top guys over five sets, but I think he'll be in the mix at the back end of the tournament, that's for sure.Peter FlemingHe's a young guy who is a threat and over five sets he'll be tough so reaching the semi-finals could be a possibility again.Barry CowanStan is always an exception, although I don't think he can win it, but then again I also didn't have him down to win the other three majors. If he gets hot and he gets that feeling then he could be very difficult to stop. What suits his game is when he has time, but what doesn't suit his game is when you rush him. If he can get to the quarter-final then you know he can go on and win it.There are big fitness concerns over Nishikori - I don't see him as 100 per cent fit. Krygios hasn't had the matches on the clay and the same with Raonic. A lack of matches will count against them.Mark PetcheyStan could be hot or he could be cold. With him coming into the tournament under the radar having not played particularly well could be ominous for everyone because he's almost got a point to prove. He's getting matches under his belt in Geneva which will give him confidence.Kyrgios could play lights out, but over five sets on the clay his serve won't be able to bail him out of trouble. Could he go deep? He could go deep. I don't know whether Raonic has enough competitive matches under his belt and the physical toll has always proved to be a bit problematic. With Nishikori and his wrist - will it hold up over two weeks in Paris? These guys are all very much outsiders for the title.Peter FlemingWe'll know a lot more about Stan by the end of the first week. He'll either be out or he'll be a real threat to win the tournament.I think any one of Kyrgios, Raonic or Nishikori will be thrilled to reach the quarter-finals.Barry CowanNadal - for me, going back from around February I had Rafa as finishing the year as No 1 and nothing has changed my opinion right now. He's won the big events on clay and when he's won the French Open as many times as he's won it then you can't look against him.Mark PetcheyVery dull but I can't go against Nadal with the form his shown so far.Peter FlemingNadal is my favourite.                    Who will win the 2017 French Open men's title? Vote now                Barry CowanComing into the clay season my favourite was Simona Halep and I've seen enough good tennis from her - but there are question marks over her fitness. Angelique Kerber is woefully out of form while defending champion Garbine Muguruza is in no real form to speak of, so without Serena Williams it's take your pick - and you can include Johanna Konta into that mix.Mark PetcheyI think everybody is in the same boat - it's as open as its ever been. I kind of romantically hope from a home-grown point of view that Kristina Mladenovic gets it done. She's had a great year, she's good for the WTA Tour, she's a little outspoken, she's got a good game, so if I was going to pick somebody who has got a realistic chance then it would be her.Peter FlemingI have no idea. It's wide open, and it could be any one of a half-dozen players who could win it.                    The 2017 French Open appears to be one of the most open in years on the women's side                For those on the move, we will have the French Open from Roland Garros covered via our website skysports.com/tennis, our app for mobile devices and iPad, or follow our Twitter account @SkySportsTennis to join in the conversation. Can Andy Murray win the French Open? Have your say...Sky customers can now upgrade to Sky Sports for an unmissable summer of sport. Upgrade now!\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK"