URL:http://www.skysports.com/tennis/news/31870/10136664/is-this-the-end-for-rafael-nadal-after-australian-open-exit
TITLE:b'Is this the end for Rafael Nadal after Australian Open exit? | Tennis News | Sky Sports'
META-KEYWORDS:b'Sky, Sports, news, sport, breaking, latest, football, golf, rugby, wwe, boxing, tennis, cricket, England, live, scores, fixtures, results, watch, tv, online, Premier, League, competitions, blogs, transfers, preview, review, Wenger, Arsenal, Manchester, United, City, Chelsea, Liverpool, Benitez, Ancelotti, Mancini, Spurs, Redknapp, Andy, Gray, Martin, Tyler, Millie, Clode, Soccer, AM, Soccerette, Hayley, McQueen, '
DATE:20/01/16 2:33pm
DOC ID:485
CONTENT:b'Tennis\n\n\nNews\nLast Updated: 20/01/16 2:33pmRafael Nadal\'s miserable Grand Slam run continued as he was sent crashing out in the Australian Open first round after a five-set defeat to Fernando Verdasco.The loss means 29-year-old Nadal has now failed to reach the second week of three consecutive major tournaments while he has not made the semi-finals since winning the French Open in 2014, so will we see him return to his best?The Spaniard won his only Australian title in 2009 after overcoming Verdasco in a five hour 14 minute semi-final, a match that still ranks among the classics at Melbourne Park.This time, Verdasco rallied from a 2-1 deficit to win the last two sets, and came from a break down in the fifth\xc2\xa0to win in four hours 41 minutes\xc2\xa0and reach the second round with a gale force of blistering winners.Nadal\'s only previous first-round exit in a Grand Slam was at Wimbledon in 2013, when he lost in straight sets to No 135-ranked Steve Darcis of Belgium.After a disappointing 2015 in which he failed to reach a single major semi-final, Nadal was hoping to instigate a revival in Melbourne but instead endured another agonising exit which left him mystified."He played better than me. He played more aggressive than me. He took more risks than me, and he won. Probably he deserved it," Nadal said."The match is a tough loss for me obviously. Obviously it is tough, especially because is not like last year that I arrived here playing bad and feeling not ready for it.                    Rafael Nadal has crashed out of the Australian Open after a first-round defeat to Fernando Verdasco                "This year was a completely different story. I have been playing and practising great and working so much."It is tough when you work so much and arrive at a very important event and you\'re going out too early."But at the same time, I know I did everything that I can to be ready for it. It was not my day. Let\'s keep going. That\'s the only thing."In his pomp, Nadal\'s forehand was the most destructive shot in the game but he was outpowered by Verdasco, who hit an incredible 90 winners to his opponent\'s 37.Nadal has been working on playing further forward and asserting more authority in matches but he was unable to dictate as much as he would have liked."In terms of creating damage to the opponent with my forehand, I didn\'t, so I was hitting forehands and he was able to keep hitting winners," Nadal said."That cannot happen when I am hitting my forehand. The opponent, if he wants to hit a winner it is because he takes too much risk. In my opinion [that] was not the case of today."                    We look back at Nadal\'s 14 Grand Slam titles in pictures                His poor form in the biggest tournaments continues [as illustrated in the graphic]. In 2013 and 2014, Nadal won three out of the six Grand Slam tournaments that he entered and was also a losing finalist in Australia two years ago.Since his French Open win in 2014, he has failed to make an impression in the Grand Slams - in five majors, the furthest he has reached is the quarter-finals of the Australian and the French Open last year.Nadal took a hiding by world No 1 Novak Djokovic in Qatar at the start of 2016 which was subsequently followed by an early Melbourne exit.Questions will be asked about Rafa\'s working relationship with uncle Toni and whether or not he can recover mentally to land a dream 10th French Open title at Roland Garros.Nadal is a 14-time major champion for a reason and he will be determined more than ever to prove he is not a fading force in the men\'s game.Now approaching 30, the left-hander from Mallorca has had to overcome back, wrist and knee injuries and spent the majority of last season recovering from appendix surgery.His psychological strength sets him apart from the rest, so don\'t rule out a return to form for the \'King of Clay\' - after all he has won 47 out of his 67 singles career titles on dirt.Wimbledon 2015: Lost to Dustin Brown in the second round, 7-5 3-6 6-4 6-4Nadal arrived at Wimbledon having surrendered his five-year hold on the French Open title and the All England Club offered no respite as the dreadlocked German Brown, a former caravan traveller, clinched a famous win on Centre Court. It was Nadal\'s fourth consecutive Wimbledon defeat to an opponent ranked outside the top 100.US Open 2015: Lost to Fabio Fognini in the third round, 3-6 4-6 6-4 6-3 6-4Nadal had never lost a Grand Slam match from two sets in front but that record went up in smoke in a thrilling contest under the lights of Arthur Ashe Stadium. The Spaniard led by a break and 3-1 in the third set but Fognini\'s booming forehand inspired a stunning comeback, ensuring his opponent ended the season without a major title for the first time in 10 years.Australian Open 2016: Lost to Fernando Verdasco in the first round, 7-6 (8-6) 4-6 3-6 7-6 (7-4) 6-2Improving results encouraged belief that Nadal might get back to his best in 2016 but the year got off to the worst possible start with a five-set defeat to Verdasco. Nadal led two sets to one and then 2-0 in the decider but he was unable to capitalise and Verdasco unleashed 90 winners en route to a booming victory.What are your thoughts? Will Nadal ever return to his magical best? Sign in with Facebook to leave a comment.We will bring you all the news, views, reaction and opinion from the Australian Open throughout the next fortnight.\n\n\n\n      \xc2\xa92017 Sky UK'